Let's look at a few Kinesis Data Streams basics.
We'll start by looking at producers.
When working with Kinesis Data Streams,
we need to first understand some of the core
concepts around working with streams.
So let's look at them in the order data flows through a Kinesis data stream.
First, we have the concept of a producer.
Similar to other Kinesis family services,
producers, as you might expect,
produce the data we want to stream into a Kinesis data stream.
There are a variety of different producers we can use,
depending on the situation, including the Kinesis Agent,
the Kinesis Producer Library, and the AWS SDKs.
Every time we use the Kinesis Data Streams, we'll need one or more producers.
The producer sends the data into the data stream itself.
So let's look at how a stream itself works.
Streams are the overarching concept that contain the
data being sent in by producers.
But with every Kinesis data stream, it's not quite that simple.
Inside every Kinesis data stream, there are one or more shards.
These shards determine the capacity of the stream to
receive data and the capacity of the stream for that data
to be read by consumers of the data.
AWS replicates and manages those shards across multiple
availability zones in the same region,
so we don't have to manage that process ourselves.
These shards of a stream will each contain records,
which are the underlying unit that data is
transmitted into and read from the streams.
There can be many different formats of data from a variety of different sources,
but all data read from a Kinesis data stream will be sent in
one or more records inside the stream.
After the records are put into a stream,
the stream can be interacted with using a consumer.
Consumers might be one of the Kinesis Client Libraries,
which pairs directly with the Kinesis Producer Library in some
ways or the AWS SDKs, which allow for more customizations in
how you interact with a stream.
However, you might also have other AWS services act as a consumer from a stream.
For example,
Kinesis Data Analytics can be configured to consume and
process data from Kinesis Data Streams.
Now you should have an understanding of some of the
different parts of Kinesis Data Streams. In the next videos, we'll look more at how these parts come back together.